= SomehowHasRelation

A simple gem/plugin that can be used to define active_record relations between multiple models.
This means that, when proper has_many, has_one, belongs_to methods have been defined, you can 
reach a far away (in tearms of relations) model by calling a single method.
It uses recursion so it is teoretically possible to ignite endless recursion loops... be careful!


== Installation

In <b>Rails 3</b>, add this to your Gemfile and run the +bundle+ command.

  gem "somehow_has_relation"

In <b>Rails 2</b>, add this to your environment.rb file.

  config.gem "somehow_has_relation"

Alternatively, you can install it as a plugin.

  rails plugin install git://github.com/mtylty/somehow_has_relation.git

== Usage

Given you declared some models like this:

  class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
    belongs_to :author
    has_many :comments
  end

  class Author < ActiveRecord::Base
    has_many :posts

    somehow_has :many => :comments, :through => :posts
  end

  class Comment < ActiveRecord::Base
    belongs_to :post
  end

You can then retrieve an author's posts' comments by calling:

  Author.first.related_comments

What happens under the hood is that SomehowHasRelation recursively uses send() to look for what you have defined
with somehow_has. The length of the recursion is not limited to 3 models of course. Multiple somehow_has methods
can be defined over various models to achieve a chain of relations that ultimately handle all the recursions
and arrays and associations for you. At the end, you will always get an Array (flattened) containing the
related models.

You can also specify options such as:

  somehow_has :one => :relation_name, :if => Proc.new{|model_instance| model_instance.created_at >= 1.day.ago}

  somehow_has :many => :relation_name, :as => :use_this_method_name_instead_of_related_relation_name_method

== Testing

The documentation is very limited (this README), but the SomehowHasRelation was developed TDD style so feel free
to clone this repository and run the tests, or write some more :).

Inside the test directory, there are two dummy rails applications, one for rails2, the other for rails3.
The folder structure was taken and modified by josevalim's {enginex}[git://github.com/josevalim/enginex.git]
to support both rails2 and rails3 (see the About section on why).

To run the tests for a specific version of rails you can:

  RAILS_VER=2 bundle install && rake test

or

  RAILS_VER=3 bundle install && rake test

RAILS_VER defaults to 2, so, if you need to test the rails2 version, you can skip it.

== About

This gem was developed to support http://openwisp.caspur.it/ an OSS Wireless Internet Service Provider mainly made
with Ruby on Rails.
You can have a look at http://spider.caspur.it/projects/owm/repository to look at how SomehowHasRelation was used
on a complex rails application.
